everyone loves a jelly which is why I
want to show you how to make one today
I'm going to be using gelatin leaf and
all you have to do for that is soak it
in some cold water just to soften it now
jelly does come in another form which is
the powdered form which is like this you
treat that in a slightly different way
which I'll explain in a minute this gets
soaked for about five minutes or so and
then you'll see it softens up like this
in the cold water we have to do is just
squeeze out any excess liquid
now this jelly you want to use it to set
what I'd call a base liquid and that can
be any sort of thing it can be like wine
it can also be something as simple as a
packet of fruit smoothie what I'm doing
today is making what the Italians would
call a panna cotta so I've got a hot
cream sugar and a bit of lemon zest and
I'm going to stir that through it's also
what we Brits will probably call cream
or blancmange in Victorian times and you
simply want to stir that round until it
dissolves the jelly now it's quite
important that your liquid is hot but
you don't want it to be boiling if it's
boiling the jelly is not going to set
properly but if it's not hot at all then
the jelly will probably go a bit stringy
with the powdered gelatin what you'd
want to do is just sprinkle it over the
surface of hot water or your hot liquid
and then that will get stirred through
and dissolved as well so once that is
done which it pretty much is now all you
want to do is let it cool down a bit and
then put it into a measuring cup now
what I'd like to do with jelly there's
lots of ways of serving if it's a fruity
jelly you might want to put it into a
big glass bowl or perhaps some lovely
cocktail glasses or something like that
for an elegant dinner party what's quite
trendy nowadays though is to put it into
a Dario mould like this or perhaps
you've got a vintage jelly mould and all
you want to do if you put it into a
mould is just very lightly grease it and
then pour some of the liquid in like
this I'm going to fill it about
three-quarters of the way up like so and
then all you have to do is just pop that
in the fridge you can do it for a couple
of hours probably be on the safe side
I'd do it overnight and then to get them
out of mould just take a knife and you
just want to run the back of the knife
around the mould like this just easing
it away
put it out a little bit with your thumb
just to make sure it's really coming
away then that's kind of eased away
nicely like this when you want to do is
just get a plate pop it on top and then
tip over the jelly like that it's
sometimes weather or just giving a
little tap and a flick forward just to
make sure it really comes off ease they
off and then that's putting a couple of
berries around it there you go perfect
for kids and also great for an adult
dinner party it's that easy to make
jelly